• https://www.oracle.com/database/technologies/datawarehouse-bigdata/adb-faqs.html
• https://quizlet.com/549478277/1z0-931-autonomous-database-specialist-flash-cards/
• https://quizlet.com/br/561349454/1z0-931-20-flash-cards/
• https://quizlet.com/99207670/oracle-1z0-432-21-40-flash-cards/
• Oracle Autonomous DB: Complete Infrastructure Automation + Complete database Automation + Automated datacenter Operations and Machine learning. It includes provisioning, patching, upgrading, and online backups, monitoring, scaling, diagnosing, performance tuning, optimizing, testing, and change management of complex applications and workloads, and automatically handling failures and errors. 99.95% SLA
• Customer Workloads Example for OCI Cloud: Oracle Enterprise Applications (Siebel, E-Business Suite, PeopleSoft, Hyperion, etc.), Customer and ISV Apps on Oracle DB, Performance Intensive Workloads, Cloud Native Apps
• Autonomous Data Warehouse (ADW): Best for fast complex analytic workloads like Data Warehouse, Data Mart, Data Lake, Machine Learning. Has a columnar data format. For memory usage does parallel joins and aggregations. It ignore hints in SQL statements.
• Autonomous Transaction Processing (ATP): Best for transaction processing and mixed workloads like Transactions, Batch, Reporting, IoT, Application Dev, Machine Learning. It uses Row data formats. For memory usage leverages Data Caching to avoid IO.
• Features of ADB: Self-Driving - Automates DB & infra management, monitoring, tuning. This saves cost on human labor. Self-Securing - Protects from external attacks and malicious internal users thus preventing from human error. Self-Repairing - Protects from all downtime including planned maintenance and does this by no human intervention.
• Self-Driving Attributes: Simply select DB Region, DB Type (ADW, ATP), DB CPU Count, DB Storage limit size.
• Self-Driving - Physical Schema Tuning: Physical Schema tuning is not required and not recommended. Tables do not need to be partitioned or configure for in-memory. Indexes and Tablespaces do not need to be created. Compression does not need to be specified.
• Automatic Tuning Benefits: SQL plans adapts as data volume changes. Indexes adapt as nature of workload changes. Changes in data volume and SQL Workload are continuously captured. ML algorithm processes changes to find new optimal plans and indexes.
• Automatic Indexing: Capture-->Identify-->Verify-->Decide-->Monitor. This is repeated. Automatic indexing creates secondary indexes that are used to improve SQL performance other than primary key and foreign key indexes. It applies to tuned and untuned applications.
• Automated Management: Nightly backups and retention is 60 days by default. Full stack patching, once a quarter, in a rolling fashion across nodes of cluster for availability.
• Self-Securing: ADB stores all data in encrypted format. Only authenticated users and applications can access the data. All connections use certificate-based authentication and SSL. Certificate based authentication uses an encrypted key stored in a wallet on both the client and the server.
• Security Auditing in ADB: Leverages Oracle Unified Audit to capture security-relevant activity. It includes Login Failures, changes to users (including new accounts) privilege and roles, changes to DB structures.
• Self-Healing Hardware in ADB: Exadata provides predictive failure capabilities. It provides unique detection of failures without a long timeout which avoids system hangs. Also, unique sub-second redirection of IO's around sick devices avoid database hangs.
• Considerations to migrate and deploy apps to ADB: Determine the level of automation and functionality required. Determine main workload characteristic of db. Select ADW or ATP and provision it. Load Data to new DB and migrate app.
• Data Load to OCI ADB: Stage the data into Cloud Object Store, preferably Oracle's, but also support it are Amazon S3 and Azure Blob Storage. Once the data is in Object Store, Autonomous Database can access it directly. Tools can be used to facilitate the data movement between Object Store and the database, for example, IMP, DP, and for export, DMP files from other databases, or Parquet, JSON, .CSV format, among others.
• Physical DB can't be migrated to Autonomous Database: Because the database must be converted to a pluggable database, upgraded to the current version of the database, and encrypted. Any changes to Oracle shipped stored procedures or views must be found and reverted. All uses of container database admin privileges must be removed. All legacy features that are not supported must be removed, such as legacy large objects.
• Data Pump: Data Pump Import lets you import data from Data Dump files residing on the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Object Store, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Object Store Classic, and AWS S3. You can then use Oracle Data Pump to load data to the Autonomous Database. Oracle Data Pump offers very fast bulk data and metadata movement between Oracle databases and Autonomous Database.
• DBMS Cloud to Load and Import to ADB: DBMS Cloud allows data movement from the object store, data from any applications or data sources, export to TEXT, .CSV, or JSON, o/p from third-party data integration tools. DBMS Cloud can also access data stored on object storage from other clouds, AWS, S3, and Azure Blob storage. DBMS Cloud does not impose any volume limit, so it's preferred method to use.
• Important DBMS_CLOUD Subprograms: CREATE_CREDENTIAL: Stores cloud service credentials in Autonomous Database. CREATE_EXTERNAL_TABLE: Creates an external table on files in the Cloud. This allows you to run queries on external data from Autonomous Database. VALIDATE_EXTERNAL_TABLE: Validates the source files for an external table, generates log information, and stores the rows that do not match the format options specified for the external table.
• Important DBMS_CLOUD Subprograms Content: COPY_DATA: Loads data into existing Autonomous Database tables from files in the Cloud. DELETE_FILE: Removes the specified file from the specified directory on Autonomous Database. PUT_OBJECT: In one form the procedure copies a file from Autonomous Database to the Cloud Object Storage. In another form the procedure copies a BLOB from Autonomous Database to the Cloud Object Storage.
• SQL Loader To Load and Import to ADB: SQL Loader can be used for loading data located on local client file systems into ADB. There are limits around OS and client machines when using SQL Loader. Data Pump is the best way to migrate a full or part database into ADB, including databases from previous versions.
• SQL Developer To Load and Import to ADB: SQL Developer provides a GUI front end for using Data Pump. They can automate the whole export and import process from an existing database to ADB. SQL Developer also includes an import wizard that can be used to import data from several file types into ADB.
• The exclude and data_options parameters: These ensure that the object types not required in ADB are not exported and table partitions are grouped together so that they can be imported faster during the import to ADB.
• Log files for Data Pump: The log files for Data Pump Import operations are stored in the directory DATA_PUMP_DIR. This is the only directory you can specify for the Data Pump directory parameter. To access the log file, you need to move the log file to your cloud object storage using the procedure DBMNS_CLOUD.PUT_OBJECT.
• Use Cases for Oracle GoldenGate: Using it On Premises to replicate data to Autonomous Database for real-time data warehousing, replicate on premises data to the Autonomous Database to set up a staging environment for downstream ETL, or real-time data warehousing. This service can also be used to migrate data to the Autonomous Database.
• Data types not supported for replicating data the Oracle Autonomous Database: LONG, LONG RAW, XMLTYPE STORE AS OBJECT relational, XMLSTORE AS BINARY, BFILE, MEDIA, and SPATIAL.
• Create User in ADB: Just specify the password. DWROLE is a predefined role that includes all necessary privileges for a DW developer/user.
• Scaling in ADB: ADB allows for independently scaling of compute or storage. Resizing occurs instantly, fully online. Memory, IO bandwidth concurrency scales linearly with CPU, so when CPUs are scaled, the system automatically adjusts other resources to match.
• ADB Backups: Automatically backs up db - Retention is 60days. You can also do manual backups. They are stored in OCI buckets. Restore can be initiated using console or API call.
• ADB Manual Backup process: Get the OCI Object Storage credentials and your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Object Storage tenancy URL. You also need to create a bucket to hold the backups. Configuration tasks are a one-time operation unless that URL, the credentials, or the bucket change. Set the database default bucket property to your Object Storage tenancy with the ALTER DATABASE PROPERTY SET default_bucket equals bucket name.
• Components of ADB Monitoring from cloud console: Storage - Chart shows the total and used storage capacity of the service.
• CPU utilization - Chart shows the historical CPU utilization of the service. Running SQL statements - Chart shows the average number of running SQL statements. Avg. SQL statement response time - Chart shows the average response time of SQL statements. SQL statements executed per second - Chart shows the SQL statements executed per second.
• Priority of User Requests in ADB: The priority of user requests in autonomous database is determined by the database service the user is connected with. Users are required to select a service when connecting to the database - low, medium, high, TP, or TPURGENT.
• Pre-defined database service names configured in tnsnames.ora for ATP: TPURGENT - Highest priority app connection service for time critical transactions. Supports manual parallelism. TP - Typical app connection service for transactions. Does not run with parallelism. High/Medium - High or Medium priority app connection service for reporting & batch operations. Operations run in parallel & are subject to queueing. Low- Lowest priority for reporting/batch processing operations. No parallelism.
• Oracle Machine Learning: OML is a SQL notebook interface for data scientists to perform machine learning in Oracle Autonomous Data Warehouse. OML is a good tool that allows collaboration on building, evaluating, and deploying predictive models and analytical methodologies.
• Steps taken when working with OML: 1. Create Oracle Machine Learning User; 2. Create workspace; 3. Create projects; 4. Create notebooks; 5. Run SQL Scripts
• Upload Data to tables in an Oracle Cloud database using options: Data Sync (recommended); Oracle Data Integrator; Oracle SQL Developer; Oracle SQL Workshop Data Upload Utility; Oracle Application Express Application Data Load Utility; REST APIs; PL/SQL scripts
• Data Sync: You can load data from files (CSV, XLSX), various relational sources (tables, views, SQL statements), OTBI, JDBC data sources, and Oracle Service Cloud. You can load to relational tables or data sets.
• System privileges user need to create analytic views: CREATE ANALYTIC VIEW; CREATE ATTRIBUTE DIMENSION
• PL/SQL Functions to validate analytic views: VALIDATE_HIERARCHY; VALIDATE_ANALYTIC_VIEW
• Capture process: Optional Oracle background process that scans the database redo log to capture DML and DDL changes made to database objects. Capture is not supported on ADB or Oracle Golden Gate.
• Database Links: You can connect to ADB from remote Db using a DB link.
• Import Tables into Oracle Analytics Cloud: Create a Data Set to import Tables into OAC.
• Primary and foreign key constraints on tables in Oracle Autonomous Database: Customers are allowed to create any constraint just like you do in a regular Oracle Database. Additionally, you can create secondary indexes, partitioned tables, or materialized views in ADB.
• Monitor performance in ADB: ADB provides the following monitoring consoles: Oracle Management Cloud - supports monitoring Autonomous Databases via its Oracle Database Management console. Performance Hub - provides real-time view of performance data directly on the OCI ADB console. ADB Service Console - is a web-based service console for each database.
• Change the CPU/IO shares for the consumer groups: The 'Set Resource Management Rules' pop-up form on the administration section of the service console has been extended to allow the modification of CPU/IO shares across the different resource groups. It is also possible to change the resource shares within a script, application call and/or via a SQL prompt using the cs_resource_manager package.
• Types of database workload are best to run on ADB-D: You can run all your transaction processing or data warehouse or mixed workload databases of any size, scale or criticality on ADB-D. As well as supporting application databases that may require highest governance, consistent performance and operational controls.

Q1  Two infrastucture options supported for an ADB: Shared Exadata Infrastructure & Dedicated Exadata Infrastructure
Q2  Retention period for the backups in ADB: 60 days
Q3  Three resources included in ADB Dedicated Infrastructure: Autonomous Database, Autonomous Container Database, Autonomous Exadata Infrastructure
Q4  Scaling on demand: Scale compute or storage independently; Resizing doesn't need to restart; Resizing occurs instantly, fully online.
Q5  Four tools that can be accessed from the Database Actions Page: SQL, Data Modeler, Data Load, APEX (NO Machine Learning Notebooks, Cloud Shell)
Q6  Oracle Autonomous JSON Database: It's a cloud document database service; It supports NoSQL-style document APIs, which enable developers to creat JSON-centric applications; It supports application developed using SODA.
Q7  Procedure that can be used to move the Data Pump Import log file from ADB to Oracle Cloud Object Storage: DBMS_CLOUD.PUT_OBJECT
Q8  Three that are used by IAM service to authenticate a principal: Resource Principal, API signing key, Username and Password
Q9  Topic is used to refer to a communication channel for sending messages to a subscription, such as email or SMS.
Q10 OCI Command Line Interface: is easy to use and ilghtweight to install; calls OCI REST APIs.
Q11 "EXEC DBMS_AUTO_INDEX.CONFIGURE('AUTO_INDEX_MODE','REPORT ONLY');" enable automatic indexing in a database, but any new auto indexes should be created as invisible indexes, so that they cannot be used in SQL statements.
Q12 REPORTADB is a refreshable clone of PRODADB. If you do not perform a refresh within seven days, then REPORTADB will be no longer refreshable. APEX URLs will not work for REPORTADB. REPORTADB cannot be changed to READ WRITE without disconnecting it from PRODADB. It is not possible to create cascading refreshable clones.
Q13 APEX can be used to build web applications rapidly.
Q14 API Signing Key: It can be generated without a passphrase. It is required when using OCI API in conjunction with SDK/CLI. An RSA key pair in PEM format does not need a minimum of 1024 bits. It is an RSA key pair in PEM format.
Q15 Provisioning an Autonomous Database: It is deployed on a private software-defined network. The provisioned database does not automatically mask user data. The provisioned database has a scalable RAC cluster running on Exadata. The provisioned database is fully encrypted.
Q16 Low, Medium and High are the predefined database service names available in an Autonomous Data Warehouse.
Q17 Oracle Autonomous Transaction Processing database: It stores data in Row Format. Memory configuration, data formats, indexes, and access structures are automatically optimized to optimize response time. It is not best suited for Analytics Workload. Use data summaries such as storage indexes on the Exadata storage cells to quickly answer the data that is not needed in the query.
Q18 Transparent is used when the ENCRYPTION parameter is DATA_ONLY and Oracle Encryption Wallet is open.
Q19 Autonomous JSON Database: There is no storage limit for JSON collections. They are schemaless. You cannot promote an Autonomous JSON Database service to an Autonomous Data Warehouse service. In a SODA collection, you cannot have a collection of image documents or a collection that contains both JSON documents and image documents.
Q20 Five Network Security Groups (NSGs) can be configured for an Autonomous Database.
Q21 DBSRV1 is an Autonomous Database with the display name PRODDB. "backup_dbsrv1" must be the name of the bucket that will be used to store manual backups.
Q22 Oracle Spatial with Autonomous Database: Spatial supports the use of JSON and GeoJSON objects. Spatial consists of a schema (MDSYS) that prescribes the storage, syntax, and semantics of supported geometric data types. Open Geospatial Consortium Web Services is not available in Autonomous Database. Oracle Spatial with Autonomous Database does not come with integrated Network Model and Data Model.
Q23 Oracle Package DBMS_CLOUD is used to load data to an ADB from object storage.
Q24 Cloning an Autonomous Database: A new autonomous database can be cloned from a live running database instance. You can change the licensing type during cloning. A refreshable (read-only) clone of the source database cannot be from its backup. The cloned database version can be higher than the source database version.
Q25 "POST /20160918/autonomousDatabases" can be used to create an Autonomous Database.
Q26 Prerequisites to configure a private endpoint with Autonomous Databases (ADBs): There must be a private subnet with DHCP option. There must be at least one Network Security Group (NSG) within your VCN. There must be a VCN within the region of the ADB.
Q27 Private endpoints: You can configure a private endpoint while cloning your ADB. You can change the network access of an autonomous database in a shared Exadata infrastructure from private endpoint to public endpoint. You can configure an existing Autonomous Database (ADB) to use a private endpoint. You don't need to set up transit routing in your VCN and use a service gateway to connect. 
Q28 "SCALING IN PROGRESS" is shown as the status when increasing the number of OCPUs in Autonomous Database.
Q29 

Q1.1 Operations that are included in automated data center operations: Provisioning a database; Patching a database; Online backups of a database; Automatically handling failures and errors.
Q1.2 Autonomous Data Warehouse: Data is stored in columnar format. Complex SQL queries are optimized.
Q1.3 Oracle Cloud Infrastructure: Provide high availability and scalability. Provide complete lifecycle automation. Enable to run everything from small VMs to large bare metal clusters. Support Bare Metal DB Systems, Virtual Machine and Exadata systems.
Q1.4 Autonomous Transaction Processing: Data is stored in row format, Missing indexes are detected and created. It is used for OLTP and mixed workloads. Response time is optimized for queries.
Q1.5 Two actions that can be performed from the OCI Console for an Oracle Autonomous Database: Scale up/down CPU; Increase Storage allocated for Database
Q1.6 OCI Console for an Oracle Autonomous Database cannot increase network bandwidth.

Autonomous Database allows to: 
    Start instance instantly.
    Stop instance on demand to conserve resources and pause billing.
    Scale instance on demand without tedious manual steps.
    (All can be done through clicking in the console.)
Provisioning: 
    Highly scalable, secure and available. 
    Private software-defined network.
    Fully encrypted database.
    Scalable RAC Cluster running on Exadata.
    Configures automatic processes like Backup.
    Choose the number of CPUs and the storage size in terabytes.
    Filter up to 20 different metrics for available, stopped and backup databases.
Provisioning ADB: 
    Extremely fast and easy.
    Require number of CPUs, database name, and workload type.
    No need to specify tablespaces, file system, operating system, or initialization parameters.
    Self-contained, self-secure, self-managed, scalable.
Scaling: (These two scaling can be done separately without influencing each other)
    Scale up/down CPU. 
    Scale up/down Storage.
Auto Scaling: (Enabled by default except for always-free account)
    Increase up to three times of the base number of OCPUs (up to 33 in total).
    All the settings can be changed while the database is still running, no down time require.
    Does not change the concurrency and parallelism settings for the predefined services.
    Billed based on the average number of OCPUs consumed during an hour.
ADB autonomously and continuously monitors the overall system performance.
Moving ADB:
    ADB shared resources can be moved from one compartment to another. Backups will be moved as well.
    Require appropriate privileges in the compartments.
    After moving, inherent policies apply immediately and affect access to that resource and its dependent resources through the console.
Cloning: 
    Possible to create a new ADB as a clone of an existing ADB, as a full copy or only metadata, 
        from a live running database instance or a backup of the source, 
        as a refreshable (read-only) clone (can trail the source DB for up to 7 days; becomes read-only after this period).
    ADB can be configured to use Private endpoints by cloning from an existing ADB with Public endpoints.
Managing Users: 
    DWROLE (), specify only password, the DB password will not expire for 360 days by default, DWROLE includes all the necessary privileges for a DW developer / user.
    Possible to create a DB user by logging in to the SQL Developer Web console as an ADMIN user for the event that there is no database client software configured.
Alarms and Events: 
    Events including Admin password expiration, ADB services going down, Wallet expiration warnings, etc.
    Notification service provided broadcast messages to distributed components using a publish-subscribe model 
        (event rules, alarms are triggered or directly publish a message). 
    Topic is a communication channel for sending messages to the subscriptions in the topic (topics and their subscriptions can be managed.)
Manage ADB backup and restores: 
    Automatic backup.
    Retention period 60 days.
    Can be restores / recovered any time.
    Manual backups possible --
        using OCI Object Storage --
            create bucket to hold backups, the name format must follow “backup_<databasename>” (NOT the display name), all in lower-case
            set OCI Object Storage tenancy URL, add the database default_backup_bucket property
            define OCI Object Storage credentials inside the database, add the database property default_credential
        manual backup configuration task is a one-time operation.
    Recovery using cloud console. Automatic restore / recover.
Autonomous Data Guard:
    Monitors primary database.
    If ADB goes down, standby instance automatically assumes primary instance role.
    Failover from primary to standby is seamless.
    After failover, a new standby for primary is automatically provisioned.
    Currently, standby database created in same region as primary database.
    For better resilience, the standby database is provisioned: 
        in regions with more than one availability domain, 
            the standby database is provisioned automatically in a different availability domain than the primary database
        in regions with a single availability domain, 
            the standby database is provisioned automatically on a different physical machine than the primary database
    Automatic Failover Scenario: 
        If Primary is unavailable, Switchover button turns to a Failover one;
        No user action needed;
        Automatic failover allowed only when no data loss will occur;
        RTO (Recovery Time Objective) = 2 minutes and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) = 0 minutes.
    Manual Failover Scenario: 
        If failover is unsuccessful, Switchover button turns into a Failover button and user can trigger a Manual Failover;
        System automatically recovers as much data as possible;
        Manual recommended only in a true disaster scenario;
        RTO = 2 minutes, RPO = 5 minutes.
Q2 The capabilities of OADB that can accelerate innovation: Provisions a data warehouse in seconds; Built-in AI and ML helps find patterns that could identify undiscovered anomalies; Instant scaling of storage; NOT Scaling of CPUs with very little downtime.

Dedicated Infrastructure:
    Two deployment choices --
        Shared Infrastructure (Public Cloud), Ultra-Simple, Standardized Config and Lifecycle Policies
        Dedicated Infrastructure (Public Cloud or Customer’s Data Center), Customizable, IT Specifies Config and Lifecycle Policies
    Primary Benefits -- 
        Provides private Database Cloud running on dedicated Exadata Infrastructure, 
        Highest Isolation, 
        Customizable Operational Policies. 
    Dedicated allows multiple levels of isolation: 
        DB, Container DB, Virtual Cloud Network (VCN), VM Cluster, Secure Isolation Zone within public cloud, Separate Hardware (Exadata Infrastructure).
    Autonomous Management Model: 
        Customer controls DB users, schemas and encryption keys;
        Oracle owns, manages and controls (without customer access) DomU, container DBs, Hypervisor, DB servers, storage servers, network, etc.
    Dedicated Network Architecture:
        Full Virtual Cloud Network support,
        Cloud compute native connections, 
        Customer corporate network connections, 
        Microsoft Azure secure cross-cloud interconnect.
    ExadataCloud@Customer:
        Address even stricter data security and sovereignty 
            by delivering high-performance Exadata Cloud services capabilities in the customer’s data center behind the customer’s own firewall.
        Primary Benefits --
            Same service as ADB Dedicated running on Public Cloud;
            Same simplicity, agility, performance and elasticity;
            Simplest and fastest transition to Autonomous Cloud; Easily migrate existing on-premises databases;
            Existing apps in data center simply reconnect and run;
            No application changes needed; Data never leaves the customer’s data center.
        Two lightweight Cloud Control Plane Servers in every ExaC@C rack communicate to the public cloud; Local Control Plane consolidates all cloud management.
        Simple Connectivity to the Data Center Network --
            Directly connect to the customer's network to communicate with application servers (10Gbps/25Gbps fiber or 10Gbps cooper);
            Connect via standard switches just like on-premises Exadata (can optionally place switches inside the Exadata rack);
            Customers control the client network configuration (support for flexiblie VLAN configurations; separate client application and backup networks).
        Resilience to disrupted OCI connectivity --
            Preserved functionality -- 
                Customer access to databases
                Automated backups
                Auto scaling
            Suspended functionality -- 
                Infrastructure management (Manual OCPU scaling, VM cluster creation)
                Management via OCI interfaces (Web UI, OCI CLI, REST API/SDK, Terraform)
                Oracle Cloud Ops access to perform
        Encryption --
            All Oracle Autonomous databases encrypt data at rest.
            Data is automatically encrypted as it's written to the storage.
            Encryption is transparent to authorized users and applications (database automatically decrypts the data when it's being read from the storage).
        Options for backing up the Autonomous Database Cloud@Customer --
            using a ZDLRA (Zero-Data Loss Recovery Appliance)
            locally mounted NFS storage
            Oracle Public Cloud
Describe Workflows and Functionality: 
    Autonomous Private DB Cloud (typical) -- 
        Fleet Administrator provisions the Exadata infrastructure by specifying its size, availability domain, and region within the Oracle Cloud; 
        Partitions system by provisioning clusters and container databases; 
        Developers, DBAs and users provision databases within container databases using self-service tools; 
        Just specify DB compute (OCPUs) and storage; 
        Billing based on the size of the Exadata infrastructure (quarter, half or full rack) and the number of CPUs that are being consumed;
        Allow customers to use their existing Oracle database licenses with this service to reduce the cost.
    Autonomous Database Dedicated --
        Physical Characteristics and Constraints – support Exadata infrastructure models and shapes X7, X8, and X8M in either a quarter, half or full Exadata rack. 
        Cluster / Virtual Cloud Network. 
        Autonomous Container Database maximum -- 12 per VM Cluster. 
        Autonomous Database maximum --
            High Availability SLA with maximum of 100 databases
            Extreme Availability SLA with a maximum of 25 databases
            Placement Logic that opens on 1 server (< 17 OCPU)
    Getting started with Autonomous Database on dedicated infrastructure -- 
        Request service limit increase for Exadata rack via OCI Limits; 
        Fleet and DBS user role setup; 
        Private Cloud setup; 
        Provide self-service access to end users to create and use Autonomous Databases.
    General Selection Considerations -- 
        Must subscribe to an Exadata Infrastructure (min term 48 hours); 
        Include Availability Domain placement controls for latency-sensitive apps; 
        Policy controls for patch scheduling and software versioning; 
        Database migration via export and import from Object Store, 
        Data Pump direct import – Network link, GoldenGate; 
        Cloning and Auto Scaling capabilities are automatically available.
    Feature                                                                     |  ADB-Dedicated                       |  ADB-Shared
    Autonomous Resources                                                        |  Autonomous Database                 |  Autonomous Database
                                                                                |  Autonomous VM Cluster               |
                                                                                |  Autonomous Exadata Infrastructure   |
    Private Single Tenant Exadata Infrastructure                                |  Yes                                 |  No
    Availability Domain Placement Choice                                        |  Yes                                 |  No
    Separate Development, Test, Production Life Cycle                           |  Yes                                 |  No
    Maintenance Schedling for Planned and Unplanned (one-off critical) Updates  |  Yes                                 |  No
    Skip Updates During Critical Business Periods                               |  Yes                                 |  No
    Instant Update - Patch Now                                                  |  Yes                                 |  No
    Configurable Backup Retention                                               |  Yes                                 |  No
    Application Continuity                                                      |  Transparent Application Continuity  |  Application Continuity
    Customer-Managed TDE Keys                                                   |  OCI Vault and Oracle Key Vault      |  No
    Data Guard - Replication Mode                                               |  Sync - Max Availability             | Async
                                                                                |  Async - Max Performance             |
    Data Guard - Active Standby                                                 |  Yes                                 |  No
    SQL Create / Drop Tablespace                                                |  Yes                                 |  No
    Java in Database                                                            |  Yes                                 |  No
    Predefined Service Connections                                              |  TCP and TCPS                        |  TCPS
    OML Notebook                                                                |  No                                  |  Yes
Provision Dedicated Resources (Exadata, Container Database and VM Cluster): 
    Provision a Dedicated Autonomous Exadata Infrastructure (Network) -> Dedicated Autonomous Container Database -> Dedicated Autonomous Database
    Subnet         |  CIDR         |  Security List Name  |  Rules
    exadataSubnet  |  10.0.0.0/24  |  exaSubnet-seclist   |  Ingress:
                   |               |                      |      Allow all internode traffic within exadataSubnet only
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP traffic on 1521 from appSubnet (DB)
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP traffic on 2484 from appSubnet (DB encrypted)
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP traffic on 6200 from appSubnet (ONS / App Cont.)
                   |               |                      |      Allow https traffic on 443 from appSubnet (Apex, SQLDevWeb)
                   |               |                      |  Egress:
                   |               |                      |      Allow all outbound traffic within exadataSubnet only
                   |               |                      |      Allow all outbound traffic to appSubnet only
    appSubnet      |  10.0.1.0/24  |  appSubnet-seclist   |  Ingress:
                   |               |                      |      Allow ssh traffic on port 22 from internet
                   |               |                      |      Allow https traffic on 443 from internet
                   |               |                      |      Allow UDP on 1194 from internet (OpenVPN)
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP on 943 from internet (OpenVPN)
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP on 5901, 5902 from internet (VNC)
                   |               |                      |      Allow TCP on 3000-3010 from internet (hosted apps)
                   |               |                      |  Egress:
                   |               |                      |      Allow all outbound traffic to internet
Monitoring Dedicated Infrastructure: 
    Autonomous Database Management Capabilities --
        Automates most tasks for the infrastructure DBA.
        Apps DBA still needs to monitor, diagnose, and perform basic application-level administrative operations. 
        EM / Performance Hub / OCI Console provides management capabilities for 
            database movement and cloning, 
            monitoring and alerting, 
            deep performance diagnostics and troubleshooting, 
            performance and capacity insights based on historical data.
    ADB-Dedicated Database Operations Available on Cloud Control Plane --
        All administrative database actions are exposed through the UI and REST APIs --
            Database, CDB, Cluster, or Exadata create / delete / start / stop, 
            On-demand backup and restore, 
            Scale CPU, storage or other resources, 
            Download connection information, including wallet, for encrypted connections, 
            Schedule updates for Exadata Infrastructure, VM Cluster, or Container Database.
        Performance monitoring, scripting and schema design through SQL Developer --
            Performance Hub and OCI Metrics and Notifications in Native Oracle Cloud Console, 
            Can also monitor databases using existing Enterprise Manager Grid Control deployments.
Creating OCI Policies for Autonomous Dedicated:
    Fleet Administrators -- 
        Fleet Admin provisions resources using 
            GUI or APIs (Allocates budgets (service limits) by Compartment to the organizations), 
            Exadata Infrastructure (Specifies Name, Region, AD, Size), 
            Clusters (single cluster v1), 
            Container Databases (CDB) in Clusters (Specifies Name, Software Version, Service Level (eg. Data Guard))
    Database Administrators -- 
        Create, monitor and manage ADBs to create an access ADBs DBAs need, 
        Oracle Cloud Account with necessary permissions to create and access Autonomous Database, Autonomous Backups, Autonomous Container Databases
    Developers and Users -- 
        Do not required Oracle Cloud account, 
        Use Network Connectivity and credentials to connect to ADB, the authorization information given to them by the DBAs, 
        Securely connect to Autonomous DB using pre-defined services.
    Service Lifecycle that can be managed -- 
        Budget and Capacity Planning, 
        Provision and Partition Infrastructure, 
        LOB Self Service, 
        Operate Auto-Scale, Auto-Tune, Auto-Backup, 
        Maintain Update, 
        Monitor
    Dedicated Private Cloud Fleet and DB Admin IAM (Identity Access Management) setup --
        Resource can be one of autonomous-exadata-infrastructure, autonomous-container-databases, autonomous-databases, autonomous-backups
    Policy statement -- 
        allow group <GROUP> to <VERB> <RESOURCE> in compartment <COMPARTMENT>
        Group is a set of users with the same privileges.
        Compartment is an operating context for a specific set of service resources only accessible to GROUPs who are explicitly granted access.
        Policy is used to bind privileges for a GROUP to a specific set of resources in a COMPAREMENT.
        Levels of access can be defined by policy -- manage, inspect, read, use.
Manage Maintenance Scheduling (Patching, ADB-Dedicated Update Policy): 
    Oracle is responsible for all software update operations.
    The database is continuously available to the application – 
        Updates applied across RAC nodes and Exadata storage servers. 
        Applications using Application Continuity best practices run without interruption.
    Quarterly updates of all components (Firmware, OS, Storage, Network, Hypervisor, Clusterware, Database).
    Updates automatically scheduled based on customer preferences.
Managing Encryption Keys:
    Techiniques --
        TDE tablespace encryption for all data at rest
        TLS 1.2 and Native Network encryption
        HSM-based Key Management Service in OCI
        Integration with on-premises Oracle Key Vault for ADB-ExaC@C
    Customer-Controlled Encryption Key Management --
        Master Encryption Keys stored on external HSM device.
            FIPS-140 Security Level 3 Compliant Service
        Customers control key generation and rotation.
        Each ACD and ADB has a separate MEK.
        Key Management is transparent to the ADB user for simpler developer experience.
    End-to-End Data Protection --
        Transparent Data Encryption
        Oracle TLS 1.2 and Native Network Encryption
        Database Vault
Q3.1 Create an Autonomous Exadata Infrastructure resource requires the input of Shape, Availability Domain, VCN (NO storage).
Q3.2 Actions can be performed from the Autonomous Container Database (CDB) details page: 
     Change maintenance schedule, Move CDB to a different compartment, Change backup retention policy for CDB, Restart CDB.

Monitoring Performance from the Cloud Console:
    Metrics page -- Storage, CPU Utilization (%), Session, Execute Count, Running SQL Statements, Queued Statements
    Overview page -- CPU Utilization (%), Number of OCPUs Allocated, Running SQL Statements, SQL Statement Response Time(s), SQL Statements Executed Per Second.
    Activity page -- Database Activity, CPU Utilization (%), Running Statements, Queued Statements
    Storage (Used) -- The percentage of provisioned storage capacity currently in use; represents the total allocated space for all tablespaces.
    CPU Utilization (%) -- 
        The CPU utilization expresses as a percentage, aggregated across all consumer groups. 
        The utilization percentage is reported with respect to the number of CPUs the database is allowed to use, which is two times the number of OCPUs.
    Execute Count -- The number of user and recursive calls that executed SQL statements during the selected interval.
    Running SQL Statements -- The number of running SQL statements, aggregated across all consumer groups, during the selected interval.
    Queued Statements / Number of OCPUs Allocated -- The number of queued SQL statements, aggregated across all consumer groups, during the selected interval.
    SQL Statement Response Time(s) -- The average response time of SQL statements historically.
    Database Activity -- This chart shows the average number of sessions in the database using CPU or waiting on a wait event.
Securing Application Connections with ACLs: 
    By default, no network access control list is specified; the database is accessible from any IP address. 
    Specifying an access control list blocks all IP addresses that are not in the list from accessing the database. 
    When the ACL is set, the database will only accept connections from addresses in the access control. 
    All other client connections will be rejected. 
    Can be configured for an ADB at any time, while provisioning or being added to an existing ADB. 
    Can be configured for individual IP addresses, CIDR block ranges and VCNs. 
    Database restore does not overwrite existing ACLs. 
    All services that are subset of an ADB, including SQL Developer Web, APEX and OML Notebooks, are also blocked by ACLs.
Private Endpoints: 
    Provides the ability to NOT permit any public access to your ADB database. 
    Is a private IP address within your VCN that can be used to access a given service within OCI. 
    Service sets up the private endpoint in a subnet of your choice. 
    Just another VNIC in your VCN. 
    Require Transit Routing + Service Gateway in your VCN. 
    Can specify that an Autonomous Database uses a private endpoint and configure a Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) in your tenancy to use with the private endpoint. 
    This allows you to keep all traffic to and from your ADB off the public internet. 
    You can configure a private endpoint when you provision or clone your ADB.
Set Up Private Endpoints with ADB: 
    There must be a VCN within the region for the ADB (this cannot be changed after provisioning). 
    A private subnet with default DHCP options. 
    At least one Network Security Group (NSG) within your VCN (this can be changed or edited after provisioning).
Network Security Group: 
    NSGs create a virtual firewall for your Autonomous Database using security rules. 
    You can specify up to five NSGs to control access to your Autonomous Database.
Notifications: 
    Security alerts; 
    Ongoing quota breaches; 
    Outages (ongoing or planned); 
    Alerts related to order management (pending approval or activation); 
    Promotions; 
    Upcoming scheduled maintenance requests.
Continuous Optimization -- Using Machine Learning: 
    Machine Learning algorithms adapt to changes and find new optimal plans and indexes. 
    Optimizer continuously captures new SQL statements and changes in data volume. 
    SQL Plans adapt as the data volume changes. New indexes are created if they speed up new SQL.
Auto-Indexing: (Indexes are added at different stages of an application’s life cycle.) 
    Automatically captures all SQL statements and execution times. 
    Identifies new candidate indexes and verifies use in new SQL plans. 
    If any new SQL plan is slower, then the old plan is restored. 
    Indexing activities are viewable, controllable, and auditable. Real-time optimizer statistics gathering keeps SQL plans current.
Process of Auto-Indexing: 
    Capture 
        Periodically captures SQL statements into a SQL repository
        Includes plans, bind values, execution statistics, etc.
    Identify
        Identifies candidate indexes that may benefit the newly captured SQL statements
        Creates index candidates as unusable, invisible indexes (just metadata)
    Verify
        Ask the optimizer if index candidates will be used for these statements
        Index candidates not used by the optimizer are automatically dropped
        Complete the creating of chosen indexes and run captured statements to the indexes did improve performance
    Decide
        If performance is better for all statements, the indexes are marked visible
        If performance is worse for all statements, the indexes are dropped
        If performance is worse for some, the indexes are marked visible except for statements that regressed
    Monitor
        Index usage is continuously monitored
        Automatically created indexes that have not been used in a long time will be dropped
        Rebuilds decaying indexes
Service Limits: 
    Quota or allowance set on a resource; 
    Set by the service subscribed to; 
    May change automatically.
Compartment Quotas: 
    Similar to service limits; 
    Set using policy statements (three types: Set, Unset, Zero). 
    To manage quotas in a compartment, you must belong to a group that has the correct permissions 
        (allow group QuotaAdmin to { QUOTA_READ, QUOTA_CREATE, QUOTA_DELETE, QUOTA_UPDATE, QUOTA_INSPECT } in tenancy). 
    Quotas can also have a scope: Availability Domain, Region or Globally 
        (when setting a quota at the Availability Domain or Region level, the quota is allocated at each AD or Region. 
        Usage for sub-compartments counts toward usage from the Main compartment.)
Service limits set by Oracle, compartment quotas set by customer administrators (fleet administrators in Dedicated).
Service limits always take precedence over quotas.
Tenancy limits, quotas, and usage can be viewed using your cloud console: 
    The console may not display information for all the OCI services or resources. 
    The usage may be greater than the limit if the limit was reduced after the resource was created. 
    If limits are displayed as “0”, then the account has been suspended.
Compartments: 
    Inherit permissions or policies from their parent compartments; 
    Newly-created compartments require at least one policy; 
    Can have sub-compartments up to six level deep.
Data Safe Service: 
    Unifies control center for Oracle Autonomous Databases --
        understands the sensitivity of your data,
        evaluates risks to data,
        masks sensitive data,
        implements and monitors security controls,
        assesses user security,
        monitors user activity,
        addresses data security compliance requirements;
    Delivers essential data security capabilities on OCI; 
    Is included with ADB, ExaCS, and DBaaS at no additional cost.
Security Zones of Control: 
    Assess (Data Discovery, Security Assessment, User Assessment, Privilege Analysis)
    Detect (Activity Auditing, Reporting / Alerting, Audit Vault, Database Firewall)
    Prevent (Encryption & Key Management, Data Masking, Data Redaction, Database Vault)
    Data (Crypto Toolkit, Virtual Private Database, Label Security, Real Application Security)
    Users (PKI, Kerberos, Radius (pluggable), Proxy Users, Oracle & Active Directory)
        Security Assessment helps you access the security of your database configurations. 
            It analyzes database configurations, user accounts, and security controls, 
            and then reports the findings with recommendations for remediation activities that follow best practices to reduce or mitigate risk.
        User Assessment helps you assess the security of your database users and identify high risk users. 
            It reviews information about your users in the data dictionary on your target databases and calculates a risk score for each user.
        Data Discovery helps you find sensitive data in your databases. 
            You tell Data Discovery what kind of sensitive data to search for, 
            and it inspects the actual data in your database and its data dictionary, and then returns to you a list of sensitive columns. 
            By default, Data Discovery can search for a wide variety of sensitive data pertaining to identification, biographic, IT, financial, healthcare, employment, and academic information.
        Data Masking provides a way for you to mask sensitive data so that the data is safe for non-production purposes.
        Activity Auditing lets you audit user activity on your databases so you can monitor database usage and be alerted of unusual database activities.
REST APIs: 
    Mechanism for developing customized deployment and management scripts that can be saved and reused for deployments. 
    Oracle Cloud Infrastructure APIs are typical REST APIs that use HTTPS requests and responses and support HTTPS and SSL protocol TLS 1.2, the most secure industry standards. 
    Calls to the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure using REST APIs can be written in popular scripting languages such as node.js, Python, Ruby, Perl, Java, C#, bash or curl.
Using OCI-CLI: 
    Small Footprint; 
    Same core functionality as the Service Console; 
    Ability to tun scripts, extend the Console’s functionality; 
    Built on Python; 
    Run on Mac, Windows or Linus; 
    Python code makes calls to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure APIs to provide the functionality implemented for the various services.
ADB-Shared Patching and Upgrades: 
    Oracle patches the database during scheduled maintenance windows. 
    The database remains available throughout the maintenance project. 
    The maintenance window generally takes no more than 2 hours. 
    The date-time for the next scheduled maintenance is shown on the OCI console page for each instance. 
    Currently, users cannot change the patching schedule.
Predefined Services Minimize Application Impact: 
    Maintenance proactively drains services (TP services have a 5-minute drain, Batch has a 1-hour drain); 
    Applications connect to a predefined database service to control (Relative Priority, SQL parallelism, max concurrently executing users).
Transparent Application Continuity: 
    Transparent, completely safe, no thinking (protects all session states, such as Sequences, Temp Tables, Temp Lobs, Roles, PL/SQL, Global and Local Context, NLS, Alter Session, and DB Links); 
    Side-effects automatically disabled at fine grain; 
    Mutable on by default for SQL (no grants, no management costs) for nonprivileged users; 
    Request boundaries on by default for database and drivers, standard with JDK 9; 
    ORAchk detail report so protection level is known always (not after a failure); 
    Included in ATP.
TAC vs. AC: 
    Both have a full view of sessions states, but AC gives customers the flexibility to keep their side-effects and to restore different more complex states, such as session duration LOBs at failover.
Use the OraChk Protection Report to identify the protection level (100% or not) and where it is not protected (in order for a decision to be made).
Mutable: Function that returns a different value each time they are called.
Request Boundaries demark where applications and application servers borrow and return connections from their connection pools. Making request boundaries visible to the database allows functionality, such as draining for planned maintenance, load balancing, and mutiplecing, to be isolated at the RDBMS, so sessions can be re-established with no visible disruption to the application layers above.
Connecting to ADB: 
    All apps use secure connections. 
    ADB uses certificate authentication and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL). 
    Certification authentication uses an encrypted key stored in a wallet on both the client and server.
Wallet contains a collection of files, including the key and other information needed to connect to the ADB (truststore.jks, tnsnames.ora, sqlnet.ora, ojdbc.properties, keystore.jks, ewallet.p12, cwallet.sso)
Data Safe:
    Unified Database Security Control Center
        Security Configuration Assessment
        User Risk Assessment
        User Activity Auditing
        Sensitive Data Discovery
        Data Masking
    Saves time and mitigates security risks
    Defense in depth for all customers
    No special security expertise needed
Q4.1 Automated tuning: Fast performance out of the box with zero tuning; Built-in resource management plans; Simple web-based monitoring console; Parallel execution of the queries does not need to be monitored manually; Partitioning covered under the automated tuning.
Q4.2 REST APIs and RESTful services: REST APIs not only use JSON for communication; REST stands for Representational State Transfer; REST APIs also use the HTTP communication protocol but mainly use JSON for communication; RESTful services are not complex when compared to traditional XML SOAP communications.
Q4.3 Scaling on demand: Independently scale compute or storage; Resizing occurs instantly, fully online.
Q4.4 OCI Command Line Interface: Is easy to use and lightweight to install; Calls OCI REST APIs.
Q4.5 The main use case for REST APIs: Monitoring, DevOps & Development.
Q4.6 When setting up the Config File using the oci setup config command, you need to enter: Location of the config file, User OCID, Tenancy OCID.

                          |  ADW (Autonomous Data Warehouse)  |  ATP (Autonomous Transaction Processing)
Primary Goal              |  Fast Complex Analytics           |  Fast Transaction Processing
Data Formats              |  Columnar                         |  Row
Data Access Acceleration  |  Creates Data Summaries           |  RDMA for Messaging and IO
Memory Usage              |  Parallel Joins and Aggregations  |  Data Caching to Avoid IO
Statistics                |  part of bulk load operations     |  part of DML operations
Developer Tools out of the box with Autonomous:
    SQL Developer Web --
        Execute SQL and PL/SQL
        Build data models, generate DDL statements
        Monitor and manage the DB
    APEX --
        Web-based function-rich, low-code development environment
        No client software needed
    Oracle REST Data Services:
        Ability to REST-enable a schema and autogenerate REST endpoints for tables, views and procedures
Auto ML: faster and easier machine learning for data scientists and developers
    Auto Algorithm Selection -- identify best prediction algorithm for each workload
    Auto Feature Selection -- identify data that best predicts outcome
    Auto Model Tuning -- identify model parameters for best performance
Data Analysis in the Traditional Market:
    Best-of-breed, enterprise-class tools, tailored for the specialist
    Data Load -> Oracle Data Integrator
    Data Prep -> Oracle Enterprise Data Quality
    Semantic Modeling
    Data Analysis
Q5.1 Built-in SQL Worksheet and Notebook: Quickly start running queries with built-in web-based notebooks; No need to install a client query tool; No need to install client query tool for the PL/SQL; Not based on Apache Tomcat.
Q5.2 Oracle Machine Learning allow access to data in Autonomous Database with Data Ingestion and Selection and Data Viewing and Discovery, and Data Analysis
Q5.3 Actions can be performed by a workspace administrator: Manage user accounts; Monitor workspace activity; View usage reports for a workspace.
Q5.4 A workspace in Oracle APEX can be associated with multiple schemas in the same database.
Q5.5 Prerequisites for connecting to an Autonomous Database using SQL Developer: DB username and password; Service Name; Credential Wallet

Autonomous JSON Database:
    Oracle's Converged Database supports both NoSQL and SQL access
    Applications developed using SODA APIs <--JSON--> JSON Documents Stored and Managed Using Oracle DB <--SQL--> SQL based reporting and analytical operations on JSON Document
    Built for JSON-centric application development
        Accessed via document APIs
            Using database drivers, command-line interface, and REST
            Applications can be built without SQL
        SQL for cross-collction queries, reporting, and analysis
        Native JSON storage, in-memory optimizations, advanced indexing
    Based on the common ADB platform
        Fully managed database - no DBA required
        Instant auto-scaling
        Life cycle operations controlled via user interface, APIs and CLIs
        One-button in-place upgrade to full ADB for multi-model workloads
Oracle Text:
    Keyword searching and language analysis
    Index documents and provide full-text content searching
    No need for a separate search engine
    Combine relational and content searching via SQL
    Automatically enabled in ADB
        Provides full-text search capabilities over Text / XML / JSON content
            Extend current apps to make better use of textual fields
            Build new apps specifically targeted at document searching
        All the power of Oracle DB and a familiar development environment
        Rock-solid ADB Infrastructure for your text apps
Spatial Data: Location is a universal key relating otherwise unrelated entities
Graphs:
    Property Graph Data Model --
        A collection of pointes (vertices) and lines between those points (edges)
            Vertices and edges can have properties
    Graph Operations --
        Query
        Analyze
        Visualize
    Detect anomalous patterns
        eg. Uncover fraud, Money laundering
    Clustering to detect communities
        eg. Analyze churn, Product recommendations
    Ranking of nodes 
        Identify key nodes
        eg. Detect influencers in a community
    Path analysis
        Fixed and variable length paths
        Cycles
        Specific patterns
        eg. Find hidden connections, Dependency analysis
Expanding the Data Ecosystem: (Much more complex than the following)
    Discover (from Data Source)
      ↓
    Ingest (Data Refinery -- CDC (GoldenGate & Oracle Data Integration), Batch Ingest (Oracle Data Integrator & Data Integration))
      ↓
    Transform
      ↓
    Curate (Data Persistence Platform -- Serving ADW, Exadata)
      ↓
    Analyze, Learn & Predict (Access & Interpretation -- Visualize / Learn (Analytics Cloud), Learn (Data Science OML, OML Notebook))
      ↓
    Measure & Act
              |  Data Warehouse    |  Data Lake
Data          |  curated, trusted  |  mixed value
Concurrency   |  high              |  lower
Schema        |  on write          |  on read
Subject Area  |  one (filtered)    |  multiple
Performance   |  high              |  acceptable
Self-Service Data Loading and Linking:
    Simple "Drag and Drop" Data Loading --
        Files on local computer
        Files on Object Storage (including OCI, AWS S3, AWS-S3 compliant store, Azure Blob Storage, Google)
        Oracle DB (on-prem and cloud)
Partitioned External Tables:
    All data outside the DB
        Files in Object Store buckets
    Exposes the power of Oracle partitioning to external data
        Partition pruning
        Parition maintenance
    Predicate pushdown to Parquet and ORC files provides find-grained data pruning
    Enables order-of-magnitudes faster query performance and enhanced data maintenance
Hybrid Partitioned Tables:
    Single table contains both internal (RDBMS) and external partitions
        Full functional support, such as partial indexing, partial read-only, constraints, etc.
    Partition maintenance for information lifecycle management
        Currently limited support
        Enhancements in progress
Q6.1 Oracle Text provides full-text content searching and combines relational content searching via SQL.
Q6.2 The most cost-effective storage to move some unstructured data consisting of images and videos to cloud storage is Object Storage.
Q6.3 Oracle Autonomous JSON Database supports NoSQL-Style document-centric applications, allows to store JSON data in the database, supports autoscaling, does not support MySQL-Style database applications.
Q6.4 Spatial studio is a self-service application to create interactive maps, needs additional resources, is not a fully managed service available in OCI, does not come with an Autonomous Database at an additional cost.
Q6.5 Clause used in Property Graph query language to specify patterns is Match.

Migration Options and Considerations:
    Optimizer statistics gathering --
        ADW and ATP -- Statistics gathered automatically during direct-path load operations
        ADW and ATP -- Users can gather statistics manually if needed
        ATP -- Statistics are gathered automatically as data changes
    Hints -- Optimizer and Parallel Hints ignored by default
    Some database options / features are locked
    ADW -- Managing DML Performance and Compression
        ADW uses Hybrid Columnar Compressions for all tables by default.
        It's recommended to use bulk operations like direct-path loads and CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statements.
        Compression can be avoided with the "nocompress" create table keyword.
        Compression levels for tables can be changed in real time with the ALTER TABLE MOVE statement.
    Database Migration Service --
        A fully-managed service for migrating databases to ADB.
        Provides logical online and offline migration with minimal downtime.
        Validates environment before migration.
        Based on the Oracle Zero Downtime Migration engine utilizing Oracle GoldenGate replication.
Migrating to Autonomous Database:
    Oracle Database Pump --
        is platform independent,
        offers very fast bulk data and metadata movement between Oracle databases and ADB,
        lets you import data from Data Pump files residing on OCI Object Storage, AWS S3, and Azure Blob Storage,
        uses 4 mechanisms to move data in and out of databases,
        expdp / impdp can be used for databases version 10.1 and above,
        can save data to your OCI Object Store and use Oracle Data Pump to load data to ADB,
        on ADB-Dedicated, can import Data Pump files from OCI Object Storage,
        eliminates legacy formats, upgrades version, encrypts data, removes admin privileges,
        GoldenGate replication can be used to keep DB online during process --
            Has standard GoldenGate restrictions or rowIDs, nested tables, identity columns, etc.
    Export an Existing Oracle Database to Import into ADB --
        Recommend schema mode for migrating to ADB to import schemas and ther data.
        Set the parallel parameter to at least the number of OCPUs you have in your Autonomous Database to use parallelism for faster migration.
        The exclude and data_options parameters ensure that object types not required in ADB will not be exported and partitions are grouped together so that they can be imported faster during the import to Autonomous Database.
    Physical DB cannot simply be migrated to ADB necause --
        DB must be converted to PDB, upgraded if needed, and encrypted
        Any changes to Oracle shipped stored procedures or views must be found and reverted
        All uses of CDB admin privileges must be removed
        All legacy features that are not supported must be removed (eg. legacy LOBs)
Data Loading Tool                  |  Recommended for Larger Data Sets  |  Input Formats Supported  |  Third-Party DB Support  |  Object Store Support
SQL Developer Data Import Wizard   |  Yes                               |  Flat files               |                          |  Yes
SQL Developer Migration Workbench  |  Yes                               |  Third-Party DB           |  Yes                     |
Oracle Data Pump                   |  Yes                               |  Oracle DB                |                          |  Yes
SQL Loader                         |                                    |  Flat files               |                          |
Database Link                      |                                    |  Oracle DB                |                          |  Yes
DBMS_CLOUD Package                 |  Yes                               |  Flat files               |                          |  Yes
External Tables                    |  Yes                               |  Flat files               |                          |  Yes
Data Sync                          |  Yes                               |  DB, Flat files           |  Yes                     |  Yes
Other ETL Tools/Scripts            |  Yes                               |  DB, Flat files           |  Yes                     |  Some
Database Migration Service:
    Is a fully-managed service for migrating DB to ADB
    Provides logical online and offline migration with minimal down time
    Validates the environment before migration
    Is based on the Oracle Zero Downtime Migration engine utilizing Oracle GoldenGate replikcation
Q7.1 DBMS_CLOUD.COPY_DATA can be used to load data directly into the existing Autonomous Database tables.
Q7.2 DBMS_CLOUD provide support for loading data from files to tables in Autonomous Database for Azure Blob Storage, Amazon AWS S3, OCI Object Storage
Q7.3 Data Pump and GoldenGate can be used to migrate an on-prem database to Oracle Autonomous Database.
