OCI Architecture: Regions -> Localized Geographic Area
                  Avaliability Domains (AD) -> Fault tolerant, Datacenters within a region, low latency, high bandwidth
                  Fault Domains (FD) -> Hardware + Infrastructure, Logical Datacenters
                  
Choosing a region: Location -> closest to your users for lowest latency and highest performance
                   Data Residency & Compliance -> many countries have strict data residency requirements
                   Service Availability -> new cloud services are made available based on regional demand, regulatory compliance, resource availability and other factors

Availability Domains: Isolated from each other, fault tolerant, unlikely to fail simultaneously; physical infrastructure not shared
Fault Domains: Logical data center within an AD; each availability domain has 3 FDs; resources placed in different FDs will not share single points of hardware failure

https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/services.htm

1.	Proof of Concept (POC) environment which connects quickly from on-premises to OCI: IPSec VPN
2.	Take backup data on OCI and also data can be retrieved quickly as possible: Object Storage
3.	Main benefit of using OCI Autonomous Data Warehouse: Scale compute and storage without downtime
4.	Required while logging a support request in My Oracle Support: Resource & Tenant Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID), Customer Support Identifier (CSI). (NOT need Account Credential like password)
5.	Service to get an alert notification when your budget might exceed the spending limit: Budgets
6.	CapEx: Capital Expenditure; OpEx: Operational Expenditure
7.	Examples of Edge Services in OCI: DNS Traffic Management & Web Application Firewall (WAF) (NOT File Storage nor Virtual Cloud Network)
8.	Unavailable pricing model in OCI: Schedule Reserve Instance (Available: Universal Credits – Monthly Flex, Pay as you go, Bring your own license)
9.	Host files that they can be accessed publicly from any location in the world: OCI Object Storage
10.	Chargeable OCI resource: Fast Connect 1 GBPS
11.	Gateway that can provide internet access when connecting to OCI compute instance in a private subnet: NAT Gateway
12.	OCI compartment: Resources can be moved from one compartment to different compartments; Compartments and resources can be deleted or added as required; Each OCI resource belongs to a single compartment; Nesting of compartments is supported
13.	Cloud model can used to host an application where customer wants to deploy an e-shopping application which uses multiple virtual machines, databases and block storage: Infrastructure As a Service (IaaS)
14.	OCI architecture provides best resiliency when cost is not an issue for deploying an application: Deploy the application across multiple regions and availability domains
15.	Shared file system: File Storage
16.	In Shared Security Model, Oracle’s responsibility in OCI: Security of data center facilities
17.	Storage service provides encryption for data-at-rest: Object Storage, File Storage, Block Volume (NOT Local NVMe)
18.	On-premises wants a dedicated connection with lowest network latency to OCI: OCI Fast Connect
19.	Protect sensitive and regulated data in OCI database services: Oracle Data Safe
20.	Correct with respect to compute instance: A private IP is always getting assigned to computer instance
21.	“Vertical Scaling” means in terms of compute instance: Switching to a larger or smaller shape for a compute instance
22.	OCI service helps in distributing the incoming traffic’s load across different servers: Load Balancer
23.	“Horizontal Scaling” means in terms of compute instance: Adding more compute instance
24.	OCI resolves or creates an incident, which of the facility is available: Email notification & Text notification to mobile (Unavailable: Social media notification)
25.	Deploy docker container for microservice based architecture: Container Engine for Kubernetes
26.	OCI service enables to buy and let use of software: OCI Marketplace
27.	Serverless architecture to run code without provisioning any infrastructure resource like virtual machine: Oracle Function
28.	Use case of Dynamic Routing Gateway (DRG): Helps OCI compute resources to connect to on-prem network
29.	In shared security model, customer’s responsibility: securing all data that is placed in OCI
30.	Enables to create, modify, or delete resources from OCI: OCI console, Rest API, Command Line Interface (CLI)
31.	Leverage Terraform to configure and manage Infrastructure As Code (IaaS), to automate the process: Resource Manager
32.	Security resource: Web Application Firewall (WAF), Network Security Group (NSG), Security Lists (NOT Local NVMe)
33.	Internally integrate with Key Management: Container Engine for Kubernetes, Block Volume, Object Storage
34.	Storage service provides the cheapest pricing (per TB): Archive Storage
35.	Deploy services and resources all around the world, subscribe: Region
36.	Distribute the incoming traffic among a set of web servers over internet: Public Load Balancer
37.	Chargeable in OCI: Egress data from a different region, Egress data to the internet
38.	Compute shape doesn’t charge in a stopped state: Standard
39.	Budget be set: Cost Tracking Tag Level, Compartment Level
40.	Logically isolate and group resources: Compartments
41.	Deploy OCI resources for first time into a different region other than home region: Subscribe to the new region other than home region
42.	Customer’s responsibility in OCI as per shared security model: Securing Customer Data & Object Lifecycle Management
43.	OCI database provides highest performance for OLTP workloads: OCI Exadata DB
44.	OCI service securely moves petabytes of data from on-premises to OCI: Data Transfer Appliance
45.	Supported in My Oracle Support (MOS): Request to increase service limit, Modify or Add a root administrator, Unlockc account for root administrator (NOT: Troubleshoot resources in OCI Free Trial Account)
46.	Covered by OCI Service Level Agreement (SLA): Availability, Management and Performance (NOT Reliability)
47.	OCI cost analysis tool that is a default feature: Filter costs by tags, Filter costs by compartments, Filter costs by date (NOT Filter costs by applications)
48.	Security service: Key Management (NOT Intrusion Detection System, SQL Anomaly Detection or Certificate Management)
49.	Manage database service offers a managed Real Application Cluster (RAC): VM DB
50.	Compute services: either bare metal instance or a virtual machine can be launched at a time, it’s possible to attach a block volume to a compute instance, data on the boot volume is not deleted when a computer instance stopped, multiple public IPs can be attached to a compute instance.
51.	Shared Responsibility Model for Security, customer’s responsibility: Identity and Access Management (IAM)
52.	To identify potential issues, fixing issues and detect anomalies of log data so as to perform advanced analysis: Logging Analytics
53.	Build modern cloud applications which can reduce cost and time by using an orchestration service: Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE)
54.	Peer two Virtual Cloud Network (VCN): VCNs Peering may exist in the same or different OCI region
55.	Using Start VCN Wizard, networking component can be created: Route Table
56.	Enable instance to be authorized principals, IAM service feature: Instance principal
57.	Manage metadata support data governance: Data Catalogue
58.	Time-limited access to resources that don’t have public endpoints: Bastion
59.	An administrator needs to support changes in application workload as per demands, if a compute instance is in running state, then can be modified: Change in number of OCPU, Fault Domain, Memory (cannot be modified: Private IP address of the instance)
60.	Logging an Oracle Support Service Request: Paid Account can only open service requests
61.	Web Application Firewall (WAF): passes through a set of rules for HTTP & HTTPS traffic
62.	OCI Object Storage: can store and retrieve data from the internet
63.	Default task performed by Autonomous Database: Firmware Patching
64.	Apache Spart applications: Data Flow
65.	Pricing model not supported: Weekly Flex (Regional Credits); supported: Pay As You Go (PAYG), Monthly Flex (Universal Credits), Bring Your Own License (BYOL)
66.	Advantage of Oracle Cloud Dedicated Region: Security of the Private Cloud
67.	Manage container images that it can share among the developers working in the same team on an application: Container Registry
68.	Monitor the timing of high CPU utilization and disk reads for compute instances: Monitoring
69.	Pricing tier without pay upfront cost because the usage of OCI resources is irregular and with billing only for the services consumed: Pay As You Go
70.	Correct with regard to Virtual Cloud Network: VCN subnet can be regional
71.	7 Virtual Machine instances in OCI Dedicated Virtual Host: Deviated Virtual Host and boot volumes of each Virtual Machine
72.	To protect against power failures within an Availability Domain: Fault Domain
73.	Block Volume: clone an existing block volume to a larger new volume, expand size of a block volume, expand an existing volume with online resizing; NOT shrink size of a block volume
74.	Deploy Autonomous Database as per business requirement, for Exadata infrastructure to be used: Dedicated Exadata Infrastructure
75.	Logical isolation for resources is provided: Compartments
76.	Dedicated low latency and high bandwidth connection from On-Prem to OCI: FastConnect
77.	OCI Vault Service recognizes three types of encryption keys: Data Encryption Keys, Master Encryption Keys, Wrapping Keys (NOT Secret Keys)
78.	Oracle Cloud VMware Solution: Customers can utilize same set of processes and tools which is used on on-premises and Customers gain full administrative control
79.	Deploy a customized e-shopping website using multiple virtual machines, databases and block volume: Infrastructure As a Service (IaaS)
80.	OCI compute instance: Private IP always get assigned.
81.	True about an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Compute instance: It always gets a private IP address, can leverage the auto-scaling feature, use a boot volume.
82.	Correct for opening an Oracle Support Service Request: Only Paid accounts can open service requests
83.	True about the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) Object Storage service: It supports private access from OCI resources in a VCN through a service gateway, it enables you to store or retrieve data directly from the Internet, it can store a infinite amount of unstructured data, analytical data, and rich content, it is not tied to a specific compute instance
84.	Perform advanced analysis of the log data to find potential issues, detect anomalies, and fix the issues: Logging Analytics
85.	Deploy the application to ensure the highest level of availability and resilience: Across multiple regions and availability domains
86.	Customer's responsibilities in the shared responsibilities model for security: Identity and access management
87.	Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) component is created by using the Start VCN Wizard: Route Table
88.	Benefit of an Oracle Cloud Dedicated Region: Security of the private cloud
89.	True about the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Compute service: You can launch either virtual machines or bare metal instances, can attach a block volume to a compute instance, can attach more than one public IP to each compute instance, all data on the boot volume is not lost when you stop a compute instance
90.	Run Apache Spark applications: Data Flow
91.	Store and manage container images on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and share them with the other developers working on the same application: Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Registry
92.	True about a Virtual Cloud Network (VCN): A subnet for a VCN can not only be availability domain specific, subnets can be private and public, a subnet for a VCN can be regional
93.	Correctly describe attributes of OCI compartments: can be used to logically separate OCI resources, can have sub-compartments, can interact with other compartments, not local to a cloud region
94.	Edit a compute instance in a running state, you can modify: number of OCPUs, amount of memory (Vertical Scaling), fault domain (chosen when creating or updating an instance), cannot modify Primary Private IP Address
95.	True about OCI: You can increase the size of a block volume, clone an existing block volume to a new, larger volume, expand an existing block volume in place with online resizing, CANNOT decrease the size
96.	Valid regarding Virtual Cloud Network (VCN) peering between two VCNs: Peered VCNs can exist in the same OCI region or in different OCI regions. A VCN peering connection is not a VPN based connection, Peered VCNs cannot have overlapping CIDRs, don’t need to be part of the same OCI tenancy (can exist in different tenancies)
97.	True about OCI Logging service: It can analyze critical diagnostic information that describes how resources are performing and being accessed (Log Analytics), is a centralized single pane of glass for all logs in a tenancy, does NOT enable to analyze cloud resources using custom metrics, NOT monitor cloud resources using metrics and alarms, CANNOT index, enrich and aggregate log data from applications
98.	Benefits of Oracle Cloud VMware Solution: Provide full administrative control to customers, runs the certified VMware product stack in the cloud, customers can leverage same set of tools and processes used on -premises
99.	Two types of encryption keys that are recognized by the OCI Vault service: Master Encryption keys, Data Encryption keys
